# Basics

If you don't know the first thing about hacking, then you're in the right place! Here, we will answer some fundamental questions about hacking and get you oriented before sending you off to the more advanced not-so-basics.

First of all, **what is hacking?** There's a lot of debate over the definition of the term thanks to the media having sensationalized and bastardized it. Contrary to popular belief, **hacking is not inherently illegal.** The term used to describe illegal cyberactivity is *cybercrime*, not *hacking*. What might be even more shocking is that hacking doesn't (always) have to do with computers! **Hacking is simply just the usage of creativity, technical knowledge, and out-of-the-box critical thinking to solve problems.** For example, many consider lockpicking to be a form of hacking because it qualifies these criteria. A hacker is simply someone who enjoys and partakes in the challenge, very similar to how one might be lured to the challenge of a puzzle.

**Computer hacking** is the subset of hacking that focuses on computers and computer systems. It is most synonymous with computer security, although it actually extends beyond that. The computer hacking culture includes those from many facets of computer science, including: Brian Kernighan, Dennis Ritchie, and Ken Thompson, creators of UNIX; Linus Torvalds, creator of Linux; Whitfield Diffie and Martin Hellman, creators of the Diffie-Hellman key exchange; Steve Wozniak, creator of the original Apple computers; and many, many others who helped shape the modern digital world as we know it today.

The hacker culture today is comprehensive, incredibly vast, and more active than ever. There are hundreds of conventions and meet-ups every single year and thousands of events. Perhaps none are more universally recognized than **capture the flag** (CTF) competitions in which hackers set up challenges for other hackers to solve using creative problem-solving techniques. In addition, **clubs, hackathons, and hackerspaces** are everywhere now to facilitate and promote collaboration between hackers. The world of hacking is vast and exciting! By joining the hacker culture, you are unlocking a whole new world of art and artists.

Now that you know what computer hacking is, the next logical question to ask is **how does one become a computer hacker?** The answer is pretty simple: **just start learning!** This repository features a wide variety of resources to learn from. Go back to the overview and pick something you might be interested in. For beginners, I would recommend having a look at the CTF writeups in the [writeups](../writeups/) directory. This can help you get your feet wet right away and learn by doing.
